What is truth? By definition, the state of being truth. Real, factual, undeniable because it is what is. 

But if you really dig into it, you'll find that the answer to the question of "what is truth" is a little more ugly than you'd once imagine.

In your lifetime, if it hasn't happened already, you will encounter people claiming some obviously false postulate as the truth. This is what I mean by ugly.

One quickly realizes that truths are usually ultimately based in belief, and if one digs even further you'll find that even self-evident truths are still built on shaky ground. 

If you're anything like me, this would bother you. It would bother you a lot. Because it *feels* like inherently there should be objective, tangible, definable, AND absolute truth. 

Effectively there is, and I think that is something a vast majority of people can agree on. The fact that somne truths exist despite our awareness of it. 

1 + 1 = 2 as long as you agree on the definitions of 1, +, =, and 2. 

And beyond just what is the real truth, sometimes even if you are not completely confident in something it is still more practical and beneficial to hold said thing as a truth.

I mean your phones probably wouldn't be here today, and by extention it would be harder for you to find this place, and by extention YOU wouldnt be here today if it werent for a little truth-faith. 

If you want to see how the truth fails in this example, if you've ever encountered a bug in the functionality of your phone. That's a feature that someone thought at some point wouldn't be present. Someone was confident enough in the "truth" that "your phone works" that they let that bug slide. 

Even if that example was small and insignificant, depending on how easily you are angered, it leads perfectly into my next point. Blind faith in anything, is risky. And faith itself, will always be a little blind. 

And thus, faith itself is dangerous to hold. If you are faithful that anything will happen you risk losing out on the true nature of things. 